---
title: Manifest
layout: default
---

Rewritten Manifest
==================

The focus of the last week was to rework the manifest system, which is one of
the most important parts of SilverStripe. This builds up information on all
classes, interfaces, traits, config and templates available in the application.

https://github.com/ajshort/sapphire/blob/composer/src/SilverStripe/Framework/Manifest/

The manifest has been largely rewritten. The main change is that rather than
just scanning for modules inside the base of the application, modules are not
registered explicitly. This is mediated by the `Application` class, which is
still a work in progress.

The actual operation of the manifest has also been reworked to make it more
consistent. There is now a central manifest, which in turn has a PHP, config
and template manifest. Rather than each manifest separarately scanning the
application, all scanning is performed in one pass by the `ModuleScanner` class.

More Details
------------
* There is now a central `Manifest` class which builds all manifests.
* A central cache object is provided by the `Manifest` class, and uses the ZF2
  cache component.
* A `ManifestInterface` has been created, which all sub-manifests implement.
* The PHP manifest now fully supports namespaces, and supports loading traits.
* The config manifest now caches parse results.

Performance
-----------
At this state it's difficult to judge performance. From some very unscientific
benchmark the manifest loading phase from cache is about the same, and
significantly faster when building the manifest as the application is only
scanned once.
